To test correlation,
let's create a new workflow and
put our data from the new
product control data file.
Since our data is in a csv file,
let's use the autofield tool to
take care of field types and
automatically assign them.
Now we can perform association analysis
to investigate if the number of
products does in fact drive sales.
To perform the analysis we'll drag
the association analysis tool
on to the canvas and
configure it to check for
correlation between product count and
sales.
If the fields window is blank,
run the workflow to populate the data.
We can now select categories Sales and
Product Count.
After adding a browse tool to the I
output, we can run the workflow and
take a look at the results.
Expanding the output of the browse tool,
we can see that category sales is fairly
positively correlated
with product column,
with a correlation coefficient of 0.43.
This is evidence that product count
should be controlled in the experiment,
since sale is related to the number
of products sold at the stores.
Next let's test to see if
there's a relationship to sales
due to the size of the store.
Since the size of the store
is not a numeric variable but
rather categorical variable, we can turn
to a plot of means analysis to identify
if there is a pattern in sales as it
relates to the size of the store.
In Alteryx we can use
a plot of means tool
that simply plots the means of each
variable in the data set you select.
It's a great way to visualize
how the mean of a variable
differs across categories.
To read more about the plot of
means tool, see the note below.
We'll select category sales for
response field and
the categorical field that we're
grouping by is the size of the store.
Prior to running the workflow,
let's add a browse tool to the output.
Expanding the browse tool provides us
with a plotted means of category sales
by store size.
When viewing a plot of means chart,
ensure that your categorical variables
are ordered in a logical order.
In this case, large, medium, and
small are in logical order, so
we're good there.
If there was a correlation
between the size and sales,
you would expect to see
a more linear relationship.
In this chart, there does not appear to
be a pattern that correlates the size of
the store with sales, so
we don't need to control for
store size in our experiment.
Lastly, we want to look at how many
stores we have in a specific geography
so that we can determine if we can
use that as a control variable.
Let's drag a summarize tool onto the
canvas, and group by city, state, and
zip code.
Then we want to perform a distinct
count on the Store ID field,
to count the stores in each area.
Let's run the workflow
to obtain the results.
The data shows that most city, state,
zip code combinations
only have one store.
There are too few stores in each
group to have options to control on.
Let's try grouping by state and
city only.
We can just highlight the zip code
field and click on the minus button.
Now we'll run the workflow and
look at the results.
Again, too few stores in each state and
city.
We are looking for
a larger set of units per location.
Since 15 is the minimum
number of observations for
students' T test to be applicable,
that's a great target.
If we group only by state,
we see that we get a much larger
number of stores per state.
In most cases more than 15.
Therefore, our assumption is
that stores in the same state
perform more alike than
stores in different states.
For example, a store in Alaska is
much more likely to be similar to
another store in Alaska than when
compared to a store in New York.
Therefore, since we have enough stores
per state we can control for state.
We've now determined that we're going
to control for Product Count and
State in our experiment,
as both have ample data and
are correlated to category Sales,
our target variable.